README.md, before:

# GS1 GPC Import

A tool for importing GS1 Global Product Classification (GPC) data into an SQLite database.

## Features

- Import GS1 GPC XML data into an SQLite database
- Download the latest GPC data directly from GS1 API using the gpcc library
- Automatically use the newest cached version if download is not available
- Export database tables to SQL file for backup or migration
- Path handling relative to script location for reliable execution from any directory

## Directory Structure

- `/imports` - Directory for XML files (downloaded or manually placed)
- `/instances` - Directory for SQLite database files
- `/exports` - Directory for SQL dump files

## Setting up the environment

### Virtual Environment

```console
sudo apt install python3-venv
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### SQLite Client

```console
sudo apt install sqlite3
sqlite3 ./instances/gpc_data_xml.sqlite3
> .help
> .schema gpc_segments
> .quit
```

## Usage

### Basic Import

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py
```

This will:
1. Look for the latest cached XML file in the imports directory
2. If none found, use the fallback file
3. Import the data into the default SQLite database

### Download Latest Data

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --download
```

This will:
1. Download the latest GPC data from the GS1 API
2. Save it to the imports directory with standard naming convention: `{language_code}-{version}.xml`
3. Import the data into the default SQLite database

### Specify Language

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --download --language fr
```

This will download and import the French version of the GPC data.

### Custom Files

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --xml-file ./my_custom_file.xml --db-file ./my_database.sqlite3
```

### Export Database to SQL

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --dump-sql
```

This will:
1. Import data as usual
2. Export all GPC tables to a SQL file in the exports directory
3. The SQL file will follow the naming convention: `{language_code}-v{date}.sql`

### Other Options

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --help
```

## Database Schema

The database uses the following schema with all tables prefixed with "gpc_":

```sql
CREATE TABLE gpc_segments (
    segment_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_families (
    family_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    segment_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (segment_code) REFERENCES gpc_segments (segment_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_classes (
    class_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    family_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (family_code) REFERENCES gpc_families (family_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_bricks (
    brick_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    class_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (class_code) REFERENCES gpc_classes (class_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_attribute_types (
    att_type_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    att_type_text TEXT,
    brick_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (brick_code) REFERENCES gpc_bricks (brick_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_attribute_values (
    att_value_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    att_value_text TEXT,
    att_type_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (att_type_code) REFERENCES gpc_attribute_types (att_type_code)
);
```

## Example Queries

### List all segments and families

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text 
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code;
```

### List all hierarchy levels with limit

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_classes.class_code, 
    gpc_bricks.brick_code,
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text, 
    gpc_classes.description AS class_text, 
    gpc_bricks.description AS brick_text
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code
JOIN gpc_classes ON gpc_families.family_code = gpc_classes.family_code
JOIN gpc_bricks ON gpc_classes.class_code = gpc_bricks.class_code
LIMIT 16;
```

### Filter by segment

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_classes.class_code, 
    gpc_bricks.brick_code,
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text, 
    gpc_classes.description AS class_text, 
    gpc_bricks.description AS brick_text
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code
JOIN gpc_classes ON gpc_families.family_code = gpc_classes.family_code
JOIN gpc_bricks ON gpc_classes.class_code = gpc_bricks.class_code
WHERE gpc_segments.segment_code = '50000000' 
LIMIT 16;
```

Commit message:

Explain the GPCC module custom release.

README.md, after:

# GS1 GPC Import

A tool for importing GS1 Global Product Classification (GPC) data into an SQLite database.

## Features

- Import GS1 GPC XML data into an SQLite database
- Download the latest GPC data directly from GS1 API using the gpcc library
- Automatically use the newest cached version if download is not available
- Export database tables to SQL file for backup or migration
- Path handling relative to script location for reliable execution from any directory

## GPCC Module Status

The GPCC module used for downloading GPC data is currently available as a custom release on GitHub. There is an outstanding pull request to push these changes upstream, after which it will be available via standard pip installation. Until then, install it directly from the GitHub repository:

```console
pip install git+https://github.com/mcgarrah/gpcc.git@v1.0.1
```

## Directory Structure

- `/imports` - Directory for XML files (downloaded or manually placed)
- `/instances` - Directory for SQLite database files
- `/exports` - Directory for SQL dump files

## Setting up the environment

### Virtual Environment

```console
sudo apt install python3-venv
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### SQLite Client

```console
sudo apt install sqlite3
sqlite3 ./instances/gpc_data_xml.sqlite3
> .help
> .schema gpc_segments
> .quit
```

## Usage

### Basic Import

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py
```

This will:
1. Look for the latest cached XML file in the imports directory
2. If none found, use the fallback file
3. Import the data into the default SQLite database

### Download Latest Data

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --download
```

This will:
1. Download the latest GPC data from the GS1 API
2. Save it to the imports directory with standard naming convention: `{language_code}-{version}.xml`
3. Import the data into the default SQLite database

### Specify Language

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --download --language fr
```

This will download and import the French version of the GPC data.

### Custom Files

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --xml-file ./my_custom_file.xml --db-file ./my_database.sqlite3
```

### Export Database to SQL

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --dump-sql
```

This will:
1. Import data as usual
2. Export all GPC tables to a SQL file in the exports directory
3. The SQL file will follow the naming convention: `{language_code}-v{date}.sql`

### Other Options

```console
python3 gpc_import_xml.py --help
```

## Database Schema

The database uses the following schema with all tables prefixed with "gpc_":

```sql
CREATE TABLE gpc_segments (
    segment_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_families (
    family_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    segment_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (segment_code) REFERENCES gpc_segments (segment_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_classes (
    class_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    family_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (family_code) REFERENCES gpc_families (family_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_bricks (
    brick_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    class_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (class_code) REFERENCES gpc_classes (class_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_attribute_types (
    att_type_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    att_type_text TEXT,
    brick_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (brick_code) REFERENCES gpc_bricks (brick_code)
);

CREATE TABLE gpc_attribute_values (
    att_value_code TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    att_value_text TEXT,
    att_type_code TEXT,
    FOREIGN KEY (att_type_code) REFERENCES gpc_attribute_types (att_type_code)
);
```

## Example Queries

### List all segments and families

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text 
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code;
```

### List all hierarchy levels with limit

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_classes.class_code, 
    gpc_bricks.brick_code,
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text, 
    gpc_classes.description AS class_text, 
    gpc_bricks.description AS brick_text
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code
JOIN gpc_classes ON gpc_families.family_code = gpc_classes.family_code
JOIN gpc_bricks ON gpc_classes.class_code = gpc_bricks.class_code
LIMIT 16;
```

### Filter by segment

```sql
SELECT 
    gpc_segments.segment_code, 
    gpc_families.family_code, 
    gpc_classes.class_code, 
    gpc_bricks.brick_code,
    gpc_segments.description AS segment_text, 
    gpc_families.description AS family_text, 
    gpc_classes.description AS class_text, 
    gpc_bricks.description AS brick_text
FROM gpc_segments 
JOIN gpc_families ON gpc_segments.segment_code = gpc_families.segment_code
JOIN gpc_classes ON gpc_families.family_code = gpc_classes.family_code
JOIN gpc_bricks ON gpc_classes.class_code = gpc_bricks.class_code
WHERE gpc_segments.segment_code = '50000000' 
LIMIT 16;
```
